---
x-trestle-param-values:
  cp-10_prm_1:
  cp-10_odp.01:
  cp-10_odp.02:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 5 High Baseline
    href: profiles/fedramp_rev5_high/profile.json
  sort-id: cp-10
---

# cp-10 - \[Contingency Planning\] System Recovery and Reconstitution

## Control Statement

Provide for the recovery and reconstitution of the system to a known state within {{ insert: param, cp-10_prm_1 }} after a disruption, compromise, or failure.

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[CP-10[01]\] the recovery of the system to a known state is provided within {{ insert: param, cp-10_odp.01 }} after a disruption, compromise, or failure;

- \[CP-10[02]\] a reconstitution of the system to a known state is provided within {{ insert: param, cp-10_odp.02 }} after a disruption, compromise, or failure.

## Control guidance

Recovery is executing contingency plan activities to restore organizational mission and business functions. Reconstitution takes place following recovery and includes activities for returning systems to fully operational states. Recovery and reconstitution operations reflect mission and business priorities; recovery point, recovery time, and reconstitution objectives; and organizational metrics consistent with contingency plan requirements. Reconstitution includes the deactivation of interim system capabilities that may have been needed during recovery operations. Reconstitution also includes assessments of fully restored system capabilities, reestablishment of continuous monitoring activities, system reauthorization (if required), and activities to prepare the system and organization for future disruptions, breaches, compromises, or failures. Recovery and reconstitution capabilities can include automated mechanisms and manual procedures. Organizations establish recovery time and recovery point objectives as part of contingency planning.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

<!-- Add control implementation description here for control: cp-10 -->

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
