---
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 5 High Baseline
    href: profiles/fedramp_rev5_high/profile.json
  sort-id: sc-18
---

# sc-18 - \[System and Communications Protection\] Mobile Code

## Control Statement

- \[a.\] Define acceptable and unacceptable mobile code and mobile code technologies; and

- \[b.\] Authorize, monitor, and control the use of mobile code within the system.

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[SC-18a.\]

  - \[SC-18a.[01]\] acceptable mobile code is defined;
  - \[SC-18a.[02]\] unacceptable mobile code is defined;
  - \[SC-18a.[03]\] acceptable mobile code technologies are defined;
  - \[SC-18a.[04]\] unacceptable mobile code technologies are defined;

- \[SC-18b.\]

  - \[SC-18b.[01]\] the use of mobile code is authorized within the system;
  - \[SC-18b.[02]\] the use of mobile code is monitored within the system;
  - \[SC-18b.[03]\] the use of mobile code is controlled within the system.

## Control guidance

Mobile code includes any program, application, or content that can be transmitted across a network (e.g., embedded in an email, document, or website) and executed on a remote system. Decisions regarding the use of mobile code within organizational systems are based on the potential for the code to cause damage to the systems if used maliciously. Mobile code technologies include Java applets, JavaScript, HTML5, WebGL, and VBScript. Usage restrictions and implementation guidelines apply to both the selection and use of mobile code installed on servers and mobile code downloaded and executed on individual workstations and devices, including notebook computers and smart phones. Mobile code policy and procedures address specific actions taken to prevent the development, acquisition, and introduction of unacceptable mobile code within organizational systems, including requiring mobile code to be digitally signed by a trusted source.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->
<!-- Add control implementation description here for control: sc-18 -->

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
