---
x-trestle-param-values:
  sc-12_odp:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 5 High Baseline
    href: profiles/fedramp_rev5_high/profile.json
  sort-id: sc-12
---

# sc-12 - \[System and Communications Protection\] Cryptographic Key Establishment and Management

## Control Statement

Establish and manage cryptographic keys when cryptography is employed within the system in accordance with the following key management requirements: {{ insert: param, sc-12_odp }}.

- \[sc-12_fr\]

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[SC-12[01]\] cryptographic keys are established when cryptography is employed within the system in accordance with {{ insert: param, sc-12_odp }};

- \[SC-12[02]\] cryptographic keys are managed when cryptography is employed within the system in accordance with {{ insert: param, sc-12_odp }}.

## Control guidance

See references in NIST 800-53 documentation.
Must meet applicable Federal Cryptographic Requirements. See References Section of control.
Wildcard certificates may be used internally within the system, but are not permitted for external customer access to the system.
Cryptographic key management and establishment can be performed using manual procedures or automated mechanisms with supporting manual procedures. Organizations define key management requirements in accordance with applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines and specify appropriate options, parameters, and levels. Organizations manage trust stores to ensure that only approved trust anchors are part of such trust stores. This includes certificates with visibility external to organizational systems and certificates related to the internal operations of systems. [NIST CMVP](#1acdc775-aafb-4d11-9341-dc6a822e9d38) and [NIST CAVP](#84dc1b0c-acb7-4269-84c4-00dbabacd78c) provide additional information on validated cryptographic modules and algorithms that can be used in cryptographic key management and establishment.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->
<!-- Add control implementation description here for control: sc-12 -->

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
