---
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 5 High Baseline
    href: profiles/fedramp_rev5_high/profile.json
  sort-id: sc-20
---

# sc-20 - \[System and Communications Protection\] Secure Name/Address Resolution Service (Authoritative Source)

## Control Statement

- \[a.\] Provide additional data origin authentication and integrity verification artifacts along with the authoritative name resolution data the system returns in response to external name/address resolution queries; and

- \[b.\] Provide the means to indicate the security status of child zones and (if the child supports secure resolution services) to enable verification of a chain of trust among parent and child domains, when operating as part of a distributed, hierarchical namespace.

- \[sc-20_fr\]

  - \[Requirement:\] Control Description should include how DNSSEC is implemented on authoritative DNS servers to supply valid responses to external DNSSEC requests.
  - \[Requirement:\] Authoritative DNS servers must be geolocated in accordance with SA-9 (5).

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[SC-20a.\]

  - \[SC-20a.[01]\] additional data origin authentication is provided along with the authoritative name resolution data that the system returns in response to external name/address resolution queries;
  - \[SC-20a.[02]\] integrity verification artifacts are provided along with the authoritative name resolution data that the system returns in response to external name/address resolution queries;

- \[SC-20b.\]

  - \[SC-20b.[01]\] the means to indicate the security status of child zones (and if the child supports secure resolution services) is provided when operating as part of a distributed, hierarchical namespace;
  - \[SC-20b.[02]\] the means to enable verification of a chain of trust among parent and child domains when operating as part of a distributed, hierarchical namespace is provided.

## Control guidance

SC-20 applies to use of external authoritative DNS to access a CSO from outside the boundary.
External authoritative DNS servers may be located outside an authorized environment. Positioning these servers inside an authorized boundary is encouraged.
CSPs are recommended to self-check DNSSEC configuration through one of many available analyzers such as Sandia National Labs (https://dnsviz.net)
Providing authoritative source information enables external clients, including remote Internet clients, to obtain origin authentication and integrity verification assurances for the host/service name to network address resolution information obtained through the service. Systems that provide name and address resolution services include domain name system (DNS) servers. Additional artifacts include DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) digital signatures and cryptographic keys. Authoritative data includes DNS resource records. The means for indicating the security status of child zones include the use of delegation signer resource records in the DNS. Systems that use technologies other than the DNS to map between host and service names and network addresses provide other means to assure the authenticity and integrity of response data.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

<!-- Add control implementation description here for control: sc-20 -->

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
