---
x-trestle-param-values:
  sc-28.01_odp.01:
  sc-28.01_odp.02:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 5 High Baseline
    href: profiles/fedramp_rev5_high/profile.json
  sort-id: sc-28.01
---

# sc-28.1 - \[System and Communications Protection\] Cryptographic Protection

## Control Statement

Implement cryptographic mechanisms to prevent unauthorized disclosure and modification of the following information at rest on {{ insert: param, sc-28.01_odp.02 }}: {{ insert: param, sc-28.01_odp.01 }}.

- \[1_fr\]

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[SC-28(01)[01]\] cryptographic mechanisms are implemented to prevent unauthorized disclosure of {{ insert: param, sc-28.01_odp.01 }} at rest on {{ insert: param, sc-28.01_odp.02 }};

- \[SC-28(01)[02]\] cryptographic mechanisms are implemented to prevent unauthorized modification of {{ insert: param, sc-28.01_odp.01 }} at rest on {{ insert: param, sc-28.01_odp.02 }}.

## Control guidance

Organizations should select a mode of protection that is targeted towards the relevant threat scenarios.

Examples:

A. Organizations may apply full disk encryption (FDE) to a mobile device where the primary threat is loss of the device while storage is locked.

B. For a database application housing data for a single customer, encryption at the file system level would often provide more protection than FDE against the more likely threat of an intruder on the operating system accessing the storage.

C. For a database application housing data for multiple customers, encryption with unique keys for each customer at the database record level may be more appropriate.
The selection of cryptographic mechanisms is based on the need to protect the confidentiality and integrity of organizational information. The strength of mechanism is commensurate with the security category or classification of the information. Organizations have the flexibility to encrypt information on system components or media or encrypt data structures, including files, records, or fields.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->
<!-- Add control implementation description here for control: sc-28.1 -->

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
