---
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 5 High Baseline
    href: profiles/fedramp_rev5_high/profile.json
  sort-id: sc-22
---

# sc-22 - \[System and Communications Protection\] Architecture and Provisioning for Name/Address Resolution Service

## Control Statement

Ensure the systems that collectively provide name/address resolution service for an organization are fault-tolerant and implement internal and external role separation.

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[SC-22[01]\] the systems that collectively provide name/address resolution services for an organization are fault-tolerant;

- \[SC-22[02]\] the systems that collectively provide name/address resolution services for an organization implement internal role separation;

- \[SC-22[03]\] the systems that collectively provide name/address resolution services for an organization implement external role separation.

## Control guidance

Systems that provide name and address resolution services include domain name system (DNS) servers. To eliminate single points of failure in systems and enhance redundancy, organizations employ at least two authoritative domain name system servers—one configured as the primary server and the other configured as the secondary server. Additionally, organizations typically deploy the servers in two geographically separated network subnetworks (i.e., not located in the same physical facility). For role separation, DNS servers with internal roles only process name and address resolution requests from within organizations (i.e., from internal clients). DNS servers with external roles only process name and address resolution information requests from clients external to organizations (i.e., on external networks, including the Internet). Organizations specify clients that can access authoritative DNS servers in certain roles (e.g., by address ranges and explicit lists).

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

<!-- Add control implementation description here for control: sc-22 -->

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
