---
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 5 High Baseline
    href: profiles/fedramp_rev5_high/profile.json
  sort-id: sc-45
---

# sc-45 - \[System and Communications Protection\] System Time Synchronization

## Control Statement

Synchronize system clocks within and between systems and system components.

## Control Assessment Objective

system clocks are synchronized within and between systems and system components.

## Control guidance

Time synchronization of system clocks is essential for the correct execution of many system services, including identification and authentication processes that involve certificates and time-of-day restrictions as part of access control. Denial of service or failure to deny expired credentials may result without properly synchronized clocks within and between systems and system components. Time is commonly expressed in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), a modern continuation of Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), or local time with an offset from UTC. The granularity of time measurements refers to the degree of synchronization between system clocks and reference clocks, such as clocks synchronizing within hundreds of milliseconds or tens of milliseconds. Organizations may define different time granularities for system components. Time service can be critical to other security capabilities—such as access control and identification and authentication—depending on the nature of the mechanisms used to support the capabilities.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->
<!-- Add control implementation description here for control: sc-45 -->

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
