---
x-trestle-param-values:
  ac-11_odp.01:
  ac-11_odp.02:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 5 High Baseline
    href: profiles/fedramp_rev5_high/profile.json
  sort-id: ac-11
---

# ac-11 - \[Access Control\] Device Lock

## Control Statement

- \[a.\] Prevent further access to the system by {{ insert: param, ac-11_odp.01 }} ; and

- \[b.\] Retain the device lock until the user reestablishes access using established identification and authentication procedures.

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[AC-11a.\] further access to the system is prevented by {{ insert: param, ac-11_odp.01 }};

- \[AC-11b.\] device lock is retained until the user re-establishes access using established identification and authentication procedures.

## Control guidance

Device locks are temporary actions taken to prevent logical access to organizational systems when users stop work and move away from the immediate vicinity of those systems but do not want to log out because of the temporary nature of their absences. Device locks can be implemented at the operating system level or at the application level. A proximity lock may be used to initiate the device lock (e.g., via a Bluetooth-enabled device or dongle). User-initiated device locking is behavior or policy-based and, as such, requires users to take physical action to initiate the device lock. Device locks are not an acceptable substitute for logging out of systems, such as when organizations require users to log out at the end of workdays.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->
<!-- Add control implementation description here for control: ac-11 -->

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
