---
x-trestle-param-values:
  ac-20_odp.01:
  ac-20_odp.02:
  ac-20_odp.03:
  ac-20_odp.04:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 5 High Baseline
    href: profiles/fedramp_rev5_high/profile.json
  sort-id: ac-20
---

# ac-20 - \[Access Control\] Use of External Systems

## Control Statement

- \[a.\] {{ insert: param, ac-20_odp.01 }} , consistent with the trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external systems, allowing authorized individuals to:

  - \[1.\] Access the system from external systems; and
  - \[2.\] Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external systems; or

- \[b.\] Prohibit the use of {{ insert: param, ac-20_odp.04 }}.

- \[ac-20_fr\]

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[AC-20a.\]

  - \[AC-20a.1\] {{ insert: param, ac-20_odp.01 }} is/are consistent with the trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external systems, allowing authorized individuals to access the system from external systems (if applicable);
  - \[AC-20a.2\] {{ insert: param, ac-20_odp.01 }} is/are consistent with the trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external systems, allowing authorized individuals to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external systems (if applicable);

- \[AC-20b.\] the use of {{ insert: param, ac-20_odp.04 }} is prohibited (if applicable).

## Control guidance

The interrelated controls of AC-20, CA-3, and SA-9 should be differentiated as follows:

AC-20 describes system access to and from external systems.

CA-3 describes documentation of an agreement between the respective system owners when data is exchanged between the CSO and an external system.

SA-9 describes the responsibilities of external system owners. These responsibilities would typically be captured in the agreement required by CA-3.
External systems are systems that are used by but not part of organizational systems, and for which the organization has no direct control over the implementation of required controls or the assessment of control effectiveness. External systems include personally owned systems, components, or devices; privately owned computing and communications devices in commercial or public facilities; systems owned or controlled by nonfederal organizations; systems managed by contractors; and federal information systems that are not owned by, operated by, or under the direct supervision or authority of the organization. External systems also include systems owned or operated by other components within the same organization and systems within the organization with different authorization boundaries. Organizations have the option to prohibit the use of any type of external system or prohibit the use of specified types of external systems, (e.g., prohibit the use of any external system that is not organizationally owned or prohibit the use of personally-owned systems).

For some external systems (i.e., systems operated by other organizations), the trust relationships that have been established between those organizations and the originating organization may be such that no explicit terms and conditions are required. Systems within these organizations may not be considered external. These situations occur when, for example, there are pre-existing information exchange agreements (either implicit or explicit) established between organizations or components or when such agreements are specified by applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, or standards. Authorized individuals include organizational personnel, contractors, or other individuals with authorized access to organizational systems and over which organizations have the authority to impose specific rules of behavior regarding system access. Restrictions that organizations impose on authorized individuals need not be uniform, as the restrictions may vary depending on trust relationships between organizations. Therefore, organizations may choose to impose different security restrictions on contractors than on state, local, or tribal governments.

External systems used to access public interfaces to organizational systems are outside the scope of [AC-20](#ac-20) . Organizations establish specific terms and conditions for the use of external systems in accordance with organizational security policies and procedures. At a minimum, terms and conditions address the specific types of applications that can be accessed on organizational systems from external systems and the highest security category of information that can be processed, stored, or transmitted on external systems. If the terms and conditions with the owners of the external systems cannot be established, organizations may impose restrictions on organizational personnel using those external systems.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

<!-- Add control implementation description here for control: ac-20 -->

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
