---
x-trestle-param-values:
  ac-21_odp.01:
  ac-21_odp.02:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 5 High Baseline
    href: profiles/fedramp_rev5_high/profile.json
  sort-id: ac-21
---

# ac-21 - \[Access Control\] Information Sharing

## Control Statement

- \[a.\] Enable authorized users to determine whether access authorizations assigned to a sharing partner match the information’s access and use restrictions for {{ insert: param, ac-21_odp.01 }} ; and

- \[b.\] Employ {{ insert: param, ac-21_odp.02 }} to assist users in making information sharing and collaboration decisions.

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[AC-21a.\] authorized users are enabled to determine whether access authorizations assigned to a sharing partner match the information’s access and use restrictions for {{ insert: param, ac-21_odp.01 }};

- \[AC-21b.\] {{ insert: param, ac-21_odp.02 }} are employed to assist users in making information-sharing and collaboration decisions.

## Control guidance

Information sharing applies to information that may be restricted in some manner based on some formal or administrative determination. Examples of such information include, contract-sensitive information, classified information related to special access programs or compartments, privileged information, proprietary information, and personally identifiable information. Security and privacy risk assessments as well as applicable laws, regulations, and policies can provide useful inputs to these determinations. Depending on the circumstances, sharing partners may be defined at the individual, group, or organizational level. Information may be defined by content, type, security category, or special access program or compartment. Access restrictions may include non-disclosure agreements (NDA). Information flow techniques and security attributes may be used to provide automated assistance to users making sharing and collaboration decisions.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->
<!-- Add control implementation description here for control: ac-21 -->

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
