---
x-trestle-param-values:
  au-11_odp:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 5 High Baseline
    href: profiles/fedramp_rev5_high/profile.json
  sort-id: au-11
---

# au-11 - \[Audit and Accountability\] Audit Record Retention

## Control Statement

Retain audit records for {{ insert: param, au-11_odp }} to provide support for after-the-fact investigations of incidents and to meet regulatory and organizational information retention requirements.

- \[au-11_fr\]

  - \[Requirement:\] The service provider retains audit records on-line for at least ninety days and further preserves audit records off-line for a period that is in accordance with NARA requirements.
  - \[Requirement:\] The service provider must support Agency requirements to comply with M-21-31 (https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/M-21-31-Improving-the-Federal-Governments-Investigative-and-Remediation-Capabilities-Related-to-Cybersecurity-Incidents.pdf)

## Control Assessment Objective

audit records are retained for {{ insert: param, au-11_odp }} to provide support for after-the-fact investigations of incidents and to meet regulatory and organizational information retention requirements.

## Control guidance

The service provider is encouraged to align with M-21-31 where possible
Organizations retain audit records until it is determined that the records are no longer needed for administrative, legal, audit, or other operational purposes. This includes the retention and availability of audit records relative to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, subpoenas, and law enforcement actions. Organizations develop standard categories of audit records relative to such types of actions and standard response processes for each type of action. The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) General Records Schedules provide federal policy on records retention.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

<!-- Add control implementation description here for control: au-11 -->

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
