---
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 5 High Baseline
    href: profiles/fedramp_rev5_high/profile.json
  sort-id: sa-11.01
---

# sa-11.1 - \[System and Services Acquisition\] Static Code Analysis

## Control Statement

Require the developer of the system, system component, or system service to employ static code analysis tools to identify common flaws and document the results of the analysis.

- \[1_fr\]

  - \[Requirement:\] The service provider must document its methodology for reviewing newly developed code for the Service in its Continuous Monitoring Plan.

If Static code analysis cannot be performed (for example, when the source code is not available), then dynamic code analysis must be performed (see SA-11 (8))

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[SA-11(01)[01]\] the developer of the system, system component, or system service is required to employ static code analysis tools to identify common flaws;

- \[SA-11(01)[02]\] the developer of the system, system component, or system service is required to employ static code analysis tools to document the results of the analysis.

## Control guidance

Static code analysis provides a technology and methodology for security reviews and includes checking for weaknesses in the code as well as for the incorporation of libraries or other included code with known vulnerabilities or that are out-of-date and not supported. Static code analysis can be used to identify vulnerabilities and enforce secure coding practices. It is most effective when used early in the development process, when each code change can automatically be scanned for potential weaknesses. Static code analysis can provide clear remediation guidance and identify defects for developers to fix. Evidence of the correct implementation of static analysis can include aggregate defect density for critical defect types, evidence that defects were inspected by developers or security professionals, and evidence that defects were remediated. A high density of ignored findings, commonly referred to as false positives, indicates a potential problem with the analysis process or the analysis tool. In such cases, organizations weigh the validity of the evidence against evidence from other sources.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->
<!-- Add control implementation description here for control: sa-11.1 -->

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
